OSDOCS#17055: Enabling and configuring network policy in cert-manager operator (#101502)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cert-manager-nw-policy-examples.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-nw-policy.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="cert-manager-nw-policy-examples_{context}"]
= Network policy configuration examples

The following examples cover various scenarios related to enabling network policy and custom rules:

.Example for enabling the network policy management

[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: CertManager
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  defaultNetworkPolicy: "true"
----

> .Example for allowing Egress to all external issuer providers*

Reviewer: This has a random asterisk at the end here

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-nw-policy.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="cert-manager-nw-policy-examples_{context}"]
= Network policy configuration examples

The following examples cover various scenarios related to enabling network policy and custom rules:

.Example for enabling the network policy management
+
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: CertManager
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  defaultNetworkPolicy: "true"
----

.Example for allowing egress to all external issuer providers
+
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: CertManager
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  defaultNetworkPolicy: "true"
  networkPolicies:

>   - name: allow-cert-manager-egress

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - name: allow-egress-to-all
```

    componentName: CoreController
    egress:
     - {}
----

.Example for allowing egress to the specific issuer provider

> The following configuration allows the `CoreController` component to connect to an ACME provider. This rule includes port `53` (TCP/UDP) for DNS resolution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following configuration allows the cert-manager controller to connect to an ACME provider, DNS API endpoints, and send DNS queries to recursive DNS servers, as part of the ACME challenge self-check process.
```

+
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: CertManager
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  defaultNetworkPolicy: "true"
  networkPolicies:
  - name: allow-egress-to-acme-server
    componentName: CoreController
    egress:
    - to: []
      ports:
      - protocol: TCP
        port: 80
      - protocol: TCP
        port: 443
      - protocol: TCP
        port: 53
      - protocol: UDP
        port: 53

> ----

Reviewer 2: Adding a validation step:

Default and user-defined network policies should be created successfully.
```
$ oc get networkpolicy -n cert-manager
NAME                                             POD-SELECTOR                              AGE
cert-manager-allow-egress-to-api-server          app.kubernetes.io/instance=cert-manager   7s
cert-manager-allow-egress-to-dns                 app=cert-manager                          6s
cert-manager-allow-ingress-to-metrics            app.kubernetes.io/instance=cert-manager   7s
cert-manager-allow-ingress-to-webhook            app=webhook                               6s
cert-manager-deny-all                            app.kubernetes.io/instance=cert-manager   8s
cert-manager-user-allow-egress-to-acme-server    app=cert-manager                          8s
cert-manager-user-allow-egress-to-dns-service    app=cert-manager                          7s

```
